Add initial guidelines for JavaScript and TypeScript (#11)
MetaMask/contributor-docs: guides/javascript.md

# JavaScript

> **NOTE:** All of these guidelines apply to TypeScript as well.

Author: So there are some guidelines which apply to JavaScript and TypeScript, and some which apply only to TypeScript. I wasn't sure how best to represent this. I figured that anything applicable to JavaScript was also applicable to TypeScript (but not vice versa) but I'm not sure if that's immediately obvious or not.

> _– [JavaScript Naming Convention Best Practices](https://javascript.plainenglish.io/javascript-naming-convention-best-practices-b2065694b7d)_

## Begin boolean variable names with `has` or `is`

When naming a variable that has a boolean type, prefix it with a form of "to be" or "to have" (e.g. `is*`, `has*`). If appropriate, include past or future tense and/or use an auxiliary verb such as `should`. If the name starts with `not`, invert the value. If the name already includes "to be" or "to have" but in the middle, move it to the beginning. Finally, take special note of variables which are created via the use of the React `useState` hook.

For example, instead of this:

``` javascript
const [removed, setRemoved] = useState(false);
const sendDisabled = standard !== ERC721;
const notEnoughGas = !isBalanceSufficient(...);
const currentTabIsConnectedToSelectedAddress = Boolean(
  selectedAddressSubjectMap && selectedAddressSubjectMap[originOfCurrentTab]
);
```

say this:

``` javascript
const [isRemoved, setIsRemoved] = useState(false);
const isSendDisabled = standard !== ERC721;

> const hasEnoughGas = isBalanceSufficient(...);

Reviewer: Not worth holding this up, but just wanna throw out something. For objects we'd like to enforce alphabetical assortment of keys, and sometimes that results in ordering that is not easily grepped for logic. Example:
```js
const state = {
  hasEnoughGas: false,
  isRecipientCopied: false,
  isGasSet: false,
};
```

in the above example, there is a unrelated state key injected between two quasi-related state keys.

```js
const state = {
  gasIsSet: false,
  gasCostIsCovered: false,
  recipientIsCopied: false,
};
```

The above example is off the top of my head, but the idea here is to put the noun/primary object first. 

Mainly commenting here to get your thoughts, not to suggest we change this. The written content already reflects an improvement in a lot of areas of our legacy code.

Author: Okay, I can get behind that. I know that you also proposed something similar here, is this related? https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-extension/pull/14784#discussion_r882774247

Reviewer: I just realized that my original comment had incorrect ordering lol and wouldn't have been a problem, but i'll leave it. This is why we need linting for this rule :P 

Yeah thats exactly what triggered this comment.

Reviewer: Also if the noun first paradigm costs more overhead than the object values being not grouped together then we can avoid this convention entirely. Just one of those things that irks me that may be just a personal thing and not widely felt.

Reviewer 2: I like the idea, but enforcing it would be challenging.

I'm reminded here of the Redux Style Guide, which has separate sections for "Essentials", "Strongly Recommended", and "Recommended".

Noun-first naming seems like a good candidate for the "Recommended" category.

I was considering creating a page on naming things; maybe I will try to fit this in that document.

Reviewer: I like the idea of having those same categories for our best practices, and i'm fine with the noun first naming being "recommended"

Author: Okay, I've added a new guideline which incorporates your suggestion here: [f9caede](https://github.com/MetaMask/contributor-docs/pull/11/commits/f9caede572b83f19ec6da5570db83b611fc1d49b). However this includes a bunch of other changes, notably the addition of guideline categories, which I've extracted to this PR: https://github.com/MetaMask/contributor-docs/pull/12

Author: Update: I ended up marking this guideline with a 💡 to indicate that it's more of a suggestion with alternatives.

# JavaScript

## Use the latest version of our ESLint config

If you're working on a project, there's a good chance that you're using our shared ESLint rules, which codifies decisions we've made around code style and can be used to align that project with other projects in our ecosystem. Make sure the project is up to date with the various packages within the [`eslint-config`](https://github.com/MetaMask/eslint-config) monorepo.

## Use a verb phrase for function/method names

When naming a function or method, describe the action, not the outcome.

🚫

``` javascript
function formattedChangelog() {
  // ...
}
```

✅

``` javascript
function formatChangelog() {
  // ...
}
```

For a function or method that returns a boolean, prefix the name with a descriptive verb so that readers don't confuse it with a boolean variable.

🚫

``` javascript
class NetworkController {
  isEIP1559Compatible() {
    // ...
  }
}
```

✅

``` javascript
class NetworkController {

>   determineEIP1559Compatibility() {

Reviewer 2: Hmm, not sure how I feel about this one. I like how concise `is[condition]` is.

I struggle to come up with non-is names for these cases too, particularly for the verb part. e.g. here it could be "determine" or 'calculate" or 'derive" or "check" or "verify" or "validate", etc. It's like a filler word.

Regarding the negative consequence:

>so that readers don't confuse it with a boolean variable

For me personally this is not a relatable experience. Maybe it's because of my editor highlighting, or because we tend to work more with TypeScript these days, but I can't recall ever confusing an `is___` function for a boolean variable.

Though... I do remember running into a similar problem. When we started introducing the ESLint `no-shadow` rule, I had to rename a bunch of `is___` variables to avoid conflict with `is___` functions.

Reviewer 2: I couldn't find any examples of this guideline in the referenced style guides either

Author: > I do remember running into a similar problem. When we started introducing the ESLint `no-shadow` rule, I had to rename a bunch of `is___` variables to avoid conflict with `is___` functions.

Ah. I have run into this too. I wonder if that's a better rationale.

Author: I've made the requested change here: [6d93d07](https://github.com/MetaMask/contributor-docs/pull/11/commits/6d93d07187b2821d5d9de499bd10c77a714efb21)

    // ...
  }
}
```

### Read more

- [Google's JavaScript Style Guide](https://google.github.io/styleguide/jsguide.html#naming-method-names)
- [.NET Fundamentals](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/standard/design-guidelines/names-of-type-members#names-of-methods)
- [Kotlin Coding Conventions](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/coding-conventions.html#choose-good-names)
- [Swift API Design Guidelines](https://www.swift.org/documentation/api-design-guidelines/#strive-for-fluent-usage)

> ## Use a verb phrase for boolean variable names that do not involve secondary objects

Reviewer 3: This can be enforced with ESLint.

Author: This guideline would be a bit tricky to enforce, I feel, because of the guideline after this, which suggests that boolean variable names may not be required to start with `is`, `has`, etc., if they involve objects secondary to the context. A project that wanted to use this strategy would then have to disable a rule we added for boolean variable names, as that rule would have to be generic. Would we want that?

<SenderToRecipient
  recipientIsOwnedAccount={isRecipientOwnedAccount}
  recipientName={toName}
  recipientNickname={toNickname}
  senderName={fromName}
  senderAddress={fromAddress}
/>
```

## Use `async`/`await` syntax over `.then`/`.catch`

Asynchronous code written using `async`/`await` syntax looks less complex and more straightforward than code written using `.then`/`.catch`. Additionally, using `async`/`await` leads to [better stack traces in Node and Chromium](https://mathiasbynens.be/notes/async-stack-traces), both of which use the V8 JavaScript engine, because when an asynchronous operation is `await`ed, the engine will remember the function where the `await` occurred, which means that it can place that function on the stack trace (otherwise, using `.then`/`.catch`, it would get lost).

🚫

``` javascript
function makeRequest() {
  return fetch("https://google.com")
    .then((response) => {
      return response.json().then((json) => {
        return json['page_views'];
      })
    })
}
```

✅

``` javascript
async function makeRequest() {
  const response = await fetch("https://google.com");
  const json = await response.json();
  return json['page_views'];
}
```

> ## `await` promises before `return`ing them

Reviewer 3: I agree with this, but it should be noted that this makes code significantly slower:

https://arthur.place/the-cost-of-return-await

Author: Good point! I can add a disclaimer.

Author: It looks like this can also be enforced with the [`return-await`](https://typescript-eslint.io/rules/return-await/) rule.

Author: By the way, for posterity, I read the article you linked to and came to [this bit at the end](https://arthur.place/the-cost-of-return-await#zero-cost-async-stack-traces) which suggests that the benefit we think `await` is providing here may not be necessary, but I don't think that's true. I am going to add an example to this section to prove that `await` is still necessary to preserve async functions in backtraces. I think [zero-cost async stack traces](https://docs.google.com/document/d/13Sy_kBIJGP0XT34V1CV3nkWya4TwYx9L3Yv45LdGB6Q/edit) is the thing that makes this even possible, but [that was added way back in v8 7.3](https://v8.dev/blog/v8-release-73#async-stack-traces) (or [Node 12, which used v7 7.8](https://nodejs.org/en/download/releases)), so I don't think we need to even mention that.

Reviewer 2: Here's the example I used last time in a Slack discussion about this: https://consensys.slack.com/archives/G1L7H42BT/p1646953758233329?thread_ts=1646952599.353159&cid=G1L7H42BT

Author: I made some updates here: https://github.com/MetaMask/contributor-docs/compare/acbcc47...d632a27

Reviewer 2: Hah, I just noticed that the referenced negative consequences don't apply to us anyway. We haven't transpiled async/await [since mid-2019](https://github.com/MetaMask/metamask-extension/pull/6812). The benchmarks shown for native async/await look pretty decent.

Author: Okay, so it sounds like we want to remove this disclaimer then?

Author: Never mind, I see both thumbs-ups. Disclaimer removed here: [22a9daa](https://github.com/MetaMask/contributor-docs/pull/11/commits/22a9daa2143c7632f13018ae5431ac950357af66)

```

If the name represents a negative statement, reword it into a positive statement and inverting the value assigned to the value.

🚫

``` javascript
const notEnoughGas = false;
```

✅

``` javascript
const hasEnoughGas = true;
```

Take special note of variables which are created via React's `useState` hook.

🚫

``` javascript
const [removed, setRemoved] = useState(false);
```

✅

``` javascript
const [isRemoved, setIsRemoved] = useState(false);
```

## 💡 Place names of secondary concepts first in boolean variable names

When naming a boolean variable that includes a subject, the previous guideline suggests that you can place the verb at the beginning:

``` javascript
const isRecipientOwnedAccount = Boolean(ownedAccountName);
```

However, this naming strategy creates a point of friction for objects, arrays, or React components, where it may be desirable to sort identifiers alphabetically. In that case you could end up with something like:

``` jsx
<SenderToRecipient
  isRecipientOwnedAccount={isRecipientOwnedAccount}
  onClick={onClick}
  recipientName={toName}
  recipientNickname={toNickname}
  senderAddress={fromAddress}
  senderName={fromName}
/>
```

> It is potentially more "greppable" if properties that concern the same concept are kept together instead of separate. To address this, you may wish to place the subject of the variable name at the beginning:

Reviewer 2: Nit: This might me more readable (:sweat_smile: ) if we say this is easier to read, rather than saying "greppable". I'm not sure it really helps with code searching, given that you could do a case-insensitive search for "recipient" and still find it either way. But the readability difference is clear

```suggestion
It is potentially easier to read if properties that concern the same concept are kept together instead of separate. To address this, you may wish to place the subject of the variable name at the beginning:
```

Author: In using "greppable" I borrowed @brad-decker's wording from the [discussion above](https://github.com/MetaMask/contributor-docs/pull/11#discussion_r995999516). After reading it again, though, I wonder if he might have meant "scannable"/"readable" instead. So I like this suggestion, but considering that you've already approved I will make this change in a future PR (pending possible confirmation).

Author: I had to push up another commit anyway so I added your suggestion.

``` javascript
const recipientIsOwnedAccount = Boolean(ownedAccountName);
```

This would result in:

``` jsx
<SenderToRecipient
  recipientIsOwnedAccount={isRecipientOwnedAccount}
  recipientName={toName}
  recipientNickname={toNickname}
  onClick={onClick}
  senderAddress={fromAddress}
  senderName={fromName}
/>
```

## Use `async`/`await` syntax over `.then`/`.catch`

Asynchronous code written using `async`/`await` syntax looks less complex and more straightforward than code written using `.then`/`.catch`. Additionally, using `async`/`await` leads to [better stack traces in Node and Chromium](https://mathiasbynens.be/notes/async-stack-traces), both of which use the V8 JavaScript engine, because when an asynchronous operation is `await`ed, the engine will remember the function where the `await` occurred, which means that it can place that function on the stack trace (otherwise, using `.then`/`.catch`, it would get lost).

🚫

``` javascript
function makeRequest() {

>   return fetch("https://google.com")

Reviewer 3: Nit: We use single quotes everywhere.
```suggestion
  return fetch('https://google.com')
```

Author: Good point! I need to add Prettier to this repo with the same settings that we usually use. I can fix this for now though.

    .then((response) => {
      return response.json().then((json) => {
        return json['page_views'];
      })
    })
}
```

✅

``` javascript
async function makeRequest() {

>   const response = await fetch("https://google.com");

Reviewer 3: Nit: We use single quotes everywhere.
```suggestion
  const response = await fetch('https://google.com');
```

🚫

``` javascript
const removed = false;
```

✅

``` javascript
// Any of these would do
const isRemoved = false;
const wasRemoved = false;
const hasBeenRemoved = false;
const shouldBeRemoved = false;
```

If the name represents a negative statement, reword it into a positive statement and inverting the value assigned to the value.

🚫

``` javascript
const notEnoughGas = false;
```

✅

``` javascript
const hasEnoughGas = true;
```

Take special note of variables which are created via React's `useState` hook.

🚫

``` javascript
const [removed, setRemoved] = useState(false);
```

✅

``` javascript
const [isRemoved, setIsRemoved] = useState(false);
```

## 💡 Place names of secondary concepts first in boolean variable names

> Sometimes a boolean variable describes a subject that's different than the context where the variable is defined:

Reviewer 2: This example was a little hard to understand for me. I'm not sure what the subject or the context are supposed to be here.

However, the later examples seemed very clear and easy to understand. Maybe this would be simpler if we got to these examples sooner? e.g. we could skip straight to the `isRecipientOwnedAccount` example, skipping these first two.

> Sometimes a boolean variable describes a subject that's different than the context where the variable is defined:
> 
> ``` javascript
> const ownedAccount = Boolean(ownedAccountName);
> ```
> 
> In naming such a variable, there are a couple of different routes you could take.
> 
> One way is to always place the verb at the beginning:

Reviewer 2: This example was a little hard to understand for me. I'm not sure what the subject or the context are supposed to be here.

However, the later examples seemed very clear and easy to understand. Maybe this would be simpler if we got to these examples sooner? e.g. we could skip straight to the `isRecipientOwnedAccount` example, skipping these first two.

Something like:

```suggestion
When naming a boolean variable that includes a subject, the previous guideline suggests that you can place the verb at the beginning:
```

Reviewer 2: Hah, just noticed that we're calling "is" a verb here. That doesn't seem right.

Author: I also wasn't quite sure, but I remember looking this up before typing it. But I've looked it up again to be double-sure.

It looks like "is" is a verb, but it's special. It doesn't do anything but tie the subject and object together, so sometimes it's called a "linking" or "copula" verb: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linking_verb

Author: Oops I didn't mean to resolve this but I hope that makes sense ^

Reviewer 2: Yep, makes sense!

``` javascript
const isRecipientOwnedAccount = Boolean(ownedAccountName);
```

However, this naming strategy creates a point of friction for objects, arrays, or React components, where it may be desirable to sort identifiers alphabetically. In that case you could end up with something like:

``` jsx
<SenderToRecipient

>   isRecipientOwnedAccount={isRecipientOwnedAccount}

Reviewer 2: This example might be improved if we could think of a prop to go in-between this one as the `recipient__` ones, Just to make super clear what the advantages are of this naming convention.

Reviewer 2: onClick maybe?

Author: Makes sense, updated here: [7b8e6ae](https://github.com/MetaMask/contributor-docs/pull/11/commits/7b8e6ae0de276d38b6e58adae5a97d3140738ed9)

  await Promise.resolve();
  throw new Error('BEEP BEEP');
}

foo().catch(error => console.log(error.stack));
```

then you will see the following in the terminal (as of Node 18):

```
Error: BEEP BEEP
    at bar (/private/tmp/example.js:7:9)
```

Notice how `foo` is completely missing from the stack trace!

However, if you put an `await` before the call to `bar`:

``` javascript
async function foo() {
  return await bar();
}

async function bar() {
  await Promise.resolve();
  throw new Error('BEEP BEEP');
}

foo().catch(error => console.log(error.stack));
```

you will now see it at the bottom of the stack trace:

```
Error: BEEP BEEP
    at bar (/private/tmp/example.js:7:9)
    at async foo (/private/tmp/example.js:2:10)
```

</details>

🚫

``` javascript
async function makeRequest() {
  const response = await fetch('https://some/url');
  return response.json();
}
```

✅

``` javascript
async function makeRequest() {
  const response = await fetch('https://some/url');
  return await response.json();
}
```

> [!WARNING]\
> `await`ing promises has a significant performance impact when transpiling to ES6. [**Read more**](https://arthur.place/the-cost-of-return-await).

> ## Use Jest's mock functions instead of Sinon

Reviewer 2: These two sections seem out-of-place in this article. They seem better suited to an article about unit tests.

Author: Yeah, I think I'd separated testing guidelines in the original Notion doc, so that makes sense. I'll extract it for now, and we can expand on it in a future PR.

Author: Extracted here: [aa8fa2f](https://github.com/MetaMask/contributor-docs/pull/11/commits/aa8fa2f9319ca1140e556aa8fe4c3c512e5e5049)

Jest incorporates most of the features of Sinon with a slimmer API:

* `jest.fn()` can be used in place of `sinon.stub()`.
* `jest.spyOn(object, method) can be used in place of `sinon.spy(object, method)`.
* `jest.spyOn(object, method)` can be used in place of `sinon.stub(object, method)` (with the caveat that the method being spied upon will still be called by default).

> * `jest.useFakeTimers()` can be used in place of `sinon.useFakeTimers()` (though note that Jest's "clock" object has a different API than Sinon's and offers fewer options for advancing time).

Reviewer 2: As of Jest v29.5, they might finally have all of the Sinon fake timer API methods exposed (see https://jestjs.io/docs/jest-object#jestadvancetimersbytimeasyncmstorun)

I was about to comment that maybe we shouldn't recommend Jest fake timers for now, but I guess it should be safe now. Maybe instead of this disclaimer about Jest having a different API with fewer options, we can add a note about the API missing features in versions prior to v29.5? e.g.

```suggestion
* `jest.useFakeTimers()` can be used in place of `sinon.useFakeTimers()` (though note that Jest's "clock" object had fewer features than Sinon's prior to Jest v29.5).
```
